this is a test file for class work
Description
In this week we will elaborate on the uses of simple selection and multiple selection.
We will learn how to develop algorithms using variations of the selection control
structure.
Introduction
An important computer operation available to the programmer is the ability to compare
two variables and then, as a result of the comparison, select one of two alternative
actions. To represent this operation, special keywords are used: if and else. The
comparison of data is established in the if clause/statement, and the choice of
alternatives is determined by the if else or else options. Only one of these alternatives
will be performed.
Until now, we have been following sequential logic flow in problem domains i.e. we
start at the beginning of a method, and execute the first statement, then the second,
then the third, etc. Each statement gets executed, and each is executed once only.
This is not very flexible.
Sequential logic flow represents one of the three control structures used in the
structured design and structured programming process. The other two structures are
iteration and selection.
Lets’ look at the selection structure which is used in problem solving when there is a
decision to be made. Remember, in the problem where we calculate traffic fines for
violating speed limit, we need to look for different scenarios as fines vary based on
over speed limits. A person driving at 20 km/hr overspeed is fined lesser than a
person going at 50 km/hr overlimit.
The process of selection allows for options. A program can take two different paths
depending on the results of a decision. In Java programming language, the selection
statement is called an if statement. Most PLs use the word ‘if’ to begin the coding for
the selection process. Hierarchy charts are not a good tool to use as they do not
depict selection process, we can use flowcharts.
Boolean Expressions and Relational Operators
All programming languages allow you to create expressions that can be evaluated as
either true or false. These are called Boolean expressions, named in honour of the
English mathematician George Boole. The condition that is tested by an if statement
must be a Boolean expression.
The Boolean expression is formed with a relational operator. A relational operator
determines whether a specific relationship exists between two values. For example,
the greater than operator (>) determines whether one value is greater than another.
The equal to operator (==) determines whether two values are equal. Here is the list
of relational operators that are commonly available in most programming languages

eturn type
The next keyword is “double”. This is called the return type of the method. All
methods must have a return type in the header line of their definition, which can
be void or non-void. Note that this is why constructors are special types of methods -
they don't have a return type at all, not even void!
After a method has finished doing its work, it can send a value (a number, a string,
etc.) back to the program that called it. This is called the return value. Some
methods do not return a value. In this case, their return type is void. If the method
does return a value, then the data type of the return value must be indicated in the
header of the method definition. In the method above, the keyword “double” is there
instead of "void" before “calculateCost”, it indicates that this method always returns a
decimal value.
A method returns either one value (if it is not void) or no value at all (if it is void). It
cannot return more than one value. (We’ll see later that there are ways of putting
more than one piece of data into a single return value.)
Parameter list
The method name is always followed by parentheses (round brackets). Inside these
parentheses, we declare variables. The variables declared in a method header are
called parameters.
A parameter declaration is very similar to the declaration of a variable located
inside the body of a method/module (called a local variable). We have already seen
local variables declared in the modules in Week 5. In the same way as a local
variable, a parameter declaration is made up of a data type and a variable name. The
rules for naming parameters are the same as for local variables: always start with a
lower - case letter.
A method can have zero, one, or several parameters. Even if it has no parameters,
the parentheses following the method name are still required.
The following methods are defined in CarRental class. The calculateCost() method
calculates the charges and applyTax() returns the rental quote which includes taxes.
